08 March 2023
Rodin Carlin have become the second team to finalise their roster for the inaugural F1 Academy season, signing Canadian racer Megan Gilkes.
She’ll be joining Jessica Edgar and Alpine junior Abbi Pulling at the British team for the 2023 campaign.
Gilkes stepped up to single-seaters in 2017, competing in the Canadian Formula 1200 Championship, finishing third and second overall in consecutive seasons.
In 2019, she was selected for the inaugural W Series season and won the non-Championship race in Assen.
With that victory, Gilkes became the youngest-ever W Series race winner.
Last year, the 22-year-old finished sixth in the UK’s GB4 Championship, achieving two wins and a further podium finish.
Ahead of her F1 Academy debut, Gilkes said: “I’m thrilled to announce that I will be driving this season for Rodin Carlin in the inaugural F1 Academy series.“I can't wait to take my learnings from racing in GB4 last season into this exciting new international venture backed by Formula 1.
The opportunity to join a truly world class team with a fantastic winning record across multiple junior formulae is amazing, and I can't wait to get started.”This tweet has been removed from TwitterAlongside racing, Gilkes also works for the Aston Martin F1 Team as a trackside support engineer during her placement year at university.“I want to thank Rodin Carlin and my sponsors for making this possible,” she continued, “and I will be proudly carrying the Maple Leaf to recognize the support I’ve received from Canada.
Between now and the first event, when I’m not engineering at work with Aston Martin F1, I will be doing everything I can to make this coming season my most successful so far.”Team Principal Stephanie Carlin added: “Megan is a fantastic signing to the team.
She is a proven racer on track with race wins to her name and also brings an off-track element that I think will really help the team from a set-up and engineering perspective.“She is a true professional and together with Abbi and Jess we have a great combination of strengths and talent within the team that really creates the full package.”The seven-round F1 Academy season kicks off with a trip to Spielberg, Austria on April 28-29.
